this video is not presenting a theory
that I believe in this is not presenting
an interpretation of the text that I
feel must be true or ought to be true
it's discussing a possibility that's
placed within the text that George might
or might not choose to act on so now I
have to insert a sort of caveat if you
don't know
George's writing of the Song of Ice and
Fire series he's in large part
improvised he made a decision as an
artist at an early stage that he was not
going to fully script out or fully plan
these books that he was going to make up
as he went along many fundamental
aspects of the plot now people knew that
for decades for years and years and
years he had commented on it in
interviews he had written about it in
articles or in blogs but nevertheless
people were shocked when there was a
leaked version of an early plan for the
books the original proposal that went to
the publishing company that you seem to
reflect a totally different scheme
totally different concept of what the
books would be including most shockingly
may have heard this the the plans of
that stage included plans for a romance
between Jon Snow and Arya Stark
now when you know that and you go back
and look at book 1 as it was printed in
its final form you can still see bits
and pieces of that plan for the plot you
can still see some echos some
foreshadowing that there could have been
a romance between Jon Snow and Arya when
RA I got a few years older whatever um
that was part of the plan for the book
now when you're done being grossed out
what you have to recognize is throughout
all of the books there is foreshadowing
that in a sense for shadows nothing
because they reflect ideas that the
author picked up played with for a while
and then sat down decided not to act on
now I'm not saying this as a complaint I
actually do not think it weakens the
Song of Ice and Fire as a work of
literature I think what it means is that
as a reader you encounter a lot of ideas
that are set down in the text and
presented to you simply as ideas for
your interest and you cannot look at
them as if they're bricks in a wall as
if their support
and edifice in some strictly logical way
that follows a kind of boring plot
pattern that has a beginning a middle
and an end if you really believe that
then it's an absurd example but it's a
real one you have to look at John snows
relationship with Aria in book 1 is
foreshadowing something which we all
know now it's is never gonna happen
um there's a lot of foreshadowing for
different possible explanations for John
snows parentage um I think it's quite
possible that one of the reasons why you
have multiple competing possibilities is
that George himself hadn't decided
entirely what direction you might want
to take it at now yes it's also true
from the Buddhist perspective it's there
so that there are multiple possibilities
just to entertain you they're just
different ideas to to pique your
interest that's completely true
objectively as a reader
that's true but subjectively for the
author in that creative process which he
has been honest with us about he's also
all the time setting up interesting
ideas that he can later play with in the
plot or he can choose not to play with
one of the possibilities right now that
people are excited about because the
television show plot has moved faster
than the book plot it has always been
possible it has always been possible
that Cersei had a first child before the
three children that we see on the TV
show that she had a first child that
survived and was raised in secret and
could reenter the plot and then it was
also possible that her secret child is
Gendry who we know you know as a young
adult on the TV show I guess he's a
teenager in the books but on the TV show
he's like a fully grown man whatever it
said that cast it but in the books he's
a young blacksmith okay that possibility
was definitely put in the text by george
RR martin when he put it there I don't
think he had an absolute firm notion of
what he would do with it he put some
kind of provocative vague suggestions
into the text and I think again just
based on his own statement about his
creative process he could take it in one
direction or another now when I was
talking about this with my with my
teacher here on China I remember she was
completely shocked at that when I said
oh yeah
you know you know it's quite possible
that Gendry is actually the the son of
Cersei Lannister that his biological
mother is seriously she was shocked she
was totally totally shocked and I said
yeah you know both in the book and in
the TV show if you pay really close
attention that possibility is actually
established but that's all it is it's a
possibility you know and the author may
not act on it and when he first you know
put those pieces on the board he may not
have had any firm idea of what he wanted
to do with them okay um you know I under
that heading some people think this is
crazy but as a work of literature a Song
of Ice and Fire
contains so much criticism of the the
basic assumptions basic social beliefs
of feudalism such an attack on notions
of bloodline as well as notions of
justice so many of the fundamental
beliefs that hold together fuel society
are held up to scorn and contempt and
ridicule and satire and questioning by
George Martin by the author it is really
possible that we will have a complex
story presented to us about Jon Snow but
then we will find out that the babies
were switched at one point in the in the
story and that somewhere else somewhere
unknown to us as readers there's a
white-haired baby growing up you know as
a miller's son or on a farm doing some
normal job somewhere else there's the
other Jon Snow and the Jon Snow we've
known in this plot doesn't have any
connection by bloodline to House
Targaryen we thought he did but they
switched the babies now if you've read
the books you know there is
foreshadowing for that possibility
because there is so much talk about
switching babies and Jon Snow himself
finds himself in a political situation
in which he chooses to secretly switch
to babies there are several other plot
lines involving babies being switched so
would I come on here and say to you that
I know for a fact or that I think it
must be the case that Jon Snow as a baby
was switched at birth no that's
ridiculous
I would say not only is it impossible
for me to know that base
syntax I don't think George Martin
writing in the style that he writes
using the creative process I don't think
he would have known himself
I think George set up that possibility
and it's one of many possibilities that
again they're there for the reader to
enjoy as different ideas and they're
also in a sense there for him to enjoy
because to a remarkable extent he's
making it up as he goes along there is
an improvised character to these books
some people get uncomfortable or get
defensive when you talk about that I
don't think there's any reason to be
defensive on it that is part of the the
style of this remarkable work of
literature okay Barbara Dustin tells us
a number of things that actually forced
us to re-evaluate the whole plot the
whole basic family scenario for House
Stark I'm gonna to make things simpler
I'm gonna refer to Ned Stark's older
brother just as his older brother
because some people watching this will
be very confused if I use names but on
the TV show it's not really clear to you
Ned Stark was not supposed to inherit
power he was not supposed to inherit
political authority he only inherited it
because his older brother died in
unexpected and untimely death a violent
gruesome death and if you're reading the
books watch the TV show really on if
you're reading in a critical way and
you've an appreciation for how critical
the author's mind is George RR Martin's
mind you start wondering why does
everyone pretend that Ned Stark is such
a great guy why why is he this paragon
of virtue you know he seems okay but he
seems human he doesn't seem like the
greatest ruler a political figure in the
land and pretty soon we see him making
mistakes making the wrong decisions
making questionable political decisions
um even the execution that we see at the
very start of the books the iconic
execution that you know bran and the
other children witness you know there
are questions you know Ned Stark doesn't
seem to the reader this paragon of
virtue
thinking reading it in order you start
to figure out early on okay so Ned is
seen as a paragon of virtue compared to
people like Joffrey
Ned is seen as a paragon of virtue
compared to house Bolton there are these
other houses that seem remarkably dark
and evil and dubious and now we start to
see okay Ned
so Ned who's already died in the plot by
this point when you're really getting
this evidence okay so it's not that Ned
is the you know is is the greatest ruler
or the greatest political figure it's
not that Ned had a perfect sense of
justice but he was better than the
alternatives okay you get this version
then Barbary Dustin shows up so many
years into your reading depending on how
many years you took to read the books or
so many hundreds of pages and Barbary
Dustin gives us another consideration
maybe Ned seemed like an outstanding
positive figure politically in contrast
to his own older brother right senedd
Zolder brother who would have become the
ruler if he hadn't died in ludicrous
surreal circumstances not even worth
describing here if you guys don't know
most people watching this video already
know the story some of you said me talk
but what George did what the author did
George Martin did brilliantly he didn't
describe how terrible a person Ned's
older brother was by giving us the
perspective of someone who hated him
instead he lets us figure out how
terrible this older brother was from the
perspective of someone who loved him and
someone who still carries a torch for
him namely Barbara Dustin that is
brilliant writing as a brilliant choice
and even more striking he has her
delivering this monologue as Barbara
Dustin explaining this to someone who
doesn't question her in any way it's you
know it's Theon Greyjoy but it's Theon
when he's really in a very mentally
broken state he's not gonna
cross-examine her or call her hypocrite
or anything else Theon is almost mute in
in listening to this the small he says a
few things
so this is brilliant and I think some
people may pass the scene by without
realizing its gravity and its
significance for the plot rape is a
significant theme throughout all these
books the fear of rape in war the
significance of rape in peacetime the
way rape shapes and reshapes the futile
alliances and marriages and the way rape
fits into the ethics of Knightly valor
the difference between a knight and a
soldier the difference between being
civilized and being barbaric rape is a
is a really significant theme okay what
Barbary Dustin tells us with no
ambiguity was that Ned Stark's older
brother was a serial rapist she does not
use terms that damning but it is
completely clear from her testimony that
Ned Stark's older brother whenever he
was attracted to somebody would
immediately rape them and this is very
serious
now this links to another major plot
thread that some of you may not know
about but some of you've known about for
years the fact that Robb Stark's father
was not Ned but was Ned's older brother
once you know what Barbary Dustin has
told you then you can go back and look
at Caitlyn Tully's plotline
Catelyn Tully who becomes Catelyn Stark
who becomes lady still hard so the
mother of most of the stark children
it's very clear that Catelyn had sex
with Ned's older brother prior to having
sex with Ned and for all kinds of
reasons it's not that surprising if you
go through you know the arrangements to
be married and then the arrangements had
to be changed that's it's not surprising
but it's completely clear that prior to
legally marrying her
Ned's older brother you know raped this
young woman or she didn't have a choice
in the matter the same way Ned's older
brother raped
Barbra Dustin and then you go back and
you can look at exactly what Catelyn
says when she's looking at her children
when she's looking at Rob
in contrast to her other kids and you
know she says these kids look like Ned
and this kid looks like it's father some
of the wording is very carefully chosen
by George just to leave that possibility
it may never be acted on the books may
end without another word ever being said
about Catelyn Tully his love life you
know prior to her marriage with Ned or
otherwise we the door may never be
closed on it those pieces may have been
put on the chess board so that as he was
writing the books Georgia the
possibilities there is a provocative
idea it's there as an interesting idea
for the reader at stimulating but it may
go nowhere
it may be foreshadowing nothing and it
it also may have foreshadowed a plot
that was abandoned right because well in
the earlier drafts of the book Catelyn
was supposed to go north of the wall
right she was supposed to go up to the
far north and fight the others and die
that's in the earlier draft that got
lead so all kinds of very very different
ideas for the plot have been entertained
by George and a lot of them been
abandoned so the fact that these things
are there doesn't mean they matter for
what happens next in the plot but they
still matter as ideas they still matter
fanatically okay
so Barbara Dustin lays down what should
be the shocking revelation that Ned
Stark's older brother was really a
terrible human being and you know this
makes sense it draws together so many of
the little bits information we already
knew about Ned Stark's older older
brother um we knew about him you know
marching to the capital city and
shouting at the king's castle net stars
a liberal they literally stood in the
streets with his sword shouting that he
wanted to murder the crown prince that's
what that was the crime he committed and
surprise surprise Ned Stark's a liberal
herb was executed for this what a shock
Oh
in any futile medieval society the fact
that this was the the punishment for his
conduct is not it's not surprising I
know people call the Mad King they call
him the Mad King they call him bad names
that particular decision in that
political and legal context is not that
surprising and now we learn he wasn't
just impetuous about threatening to
murder members of the royal family in
the streets the capital city in front of
the well in fact um he was also a serial
rapist he was impetuous in these other
ways right so right away this opens up
other possibilities now look it is
possible that the candy-coated story of
John Stark having magical Targaryen
blood is the whole story and that's it
but you guys know George George plays by
his own rules and you know appearance is
hereditary in the books in a way that's
convenient it really is possible that
along with the the baby switching motif
that will find out that yeah you know
what Leanna did give birth to a baby
that had white hair or you know at least
violet eyes or some of the other
distinctive Targaryen vision it's just
it's not John baby's got switched to
that baby is somewhere else maybe that
baby was left in Dorne there all these
other possibilities set up and that
would suit George Aaron's overall
thematic concerns that really is I think
a possibility may not be a possible
attack Taedong or maybe hinted at in the
book and never resolved all these things
can remain open and and undecided but
the other possibility is that John
Starks bloodline is a hundred and ten
percent northern which is both how he
looks and also relates to the type of
magic uses John doesn't have dragon
magic John seems to have a double dose
of the distinctive magic of the far
north the skin changing ability etc
right there have been no indications
unlike say Tyrion there's no indication
that John has dragon dreams you know
exactly what kind of dreams John has you
know exactly what kind of magical
abilities Jonah's so it does set up the
real possibility that among the victims
of John star sorry of among the victims
of Eddard Starks older brother who we
now know to be a violent
serial rapists and we know this from the
perspective of our boy Dustin it is
possible that among his victims was
Lyanna stark
so if Lyanna stark was pregnant because
she was raped in this fashion that we
have other witnesses too and what have
you then suddenly we have a very
different motivation both for her
escaping Winterfell for her running away
which is the basic fact of the story we
know about and her seeking the help and
protection of the Targaryen family we
also have a very different explanation
for why her brother would suddenly run
away suicidally run away to the capital
city threatening to murder the crown
prince's idiotic mix to call it a crime
of passion is an insult to crimes of
passion right so there's several other
possibilities set up by Barbra Dustin
barber Dustin tells us she has a network
of spies she has her own army in her own
spies she tells us she's not gonna let a
certain decapitated head reach
Winterfell she's not gonna let certain
bones and remains reach Winterfell
she tells us that she said for a revenge
but at this stage the story in fact
she's already had a revenge it's very
unclear what she's gonna do next there's
quite a lot to speculate on and
interestingly what was it Robb Stark's
the captain head is supposed to be
joined the capital city so some people
theorized that Robb Stark's head was
actually put on top of the mountains
body in making gregor clegane into an
undead monster in the books of his son
on the TV show but the remains of Ned
Stark they were supposed to be going
north to Winterfell Barbary Dustin is
supposedly stolen them all kinds of
crazy questions arise from this so
there's a lot there there's a lot of
material there again my point in this
video is not to say I have the correct
interpretation nobody else does
I think that Jorge sets up myriad
possibilities very intentionally to make
the books more intellectually
stimulating
and to make his own creative process
more rewarding but the result is there's
a lot of foreshadowing for things that
are never going to happen and there are
a lot of things introduced that are
thematically significant but that will
never be significant for the plot